alright this song is in the key of
b-flat and we have sort of this vamp
hanging out on B flat for a while so a
good thing to do when you're faced with
a song structure like that where you're
going to sit on one chord is to come up
with a little lick but it's a rhythm
guitar lick it's not like a lead guitar
lick and of course you know all the R&B
and soul guitar greats came up with some
of the greatest parts like that we've
ever heard Steve cropper just about
every Otis Redding Wilson Pickett Sam
and Dave song you're going to hear all
that stuff so we're in b-flat I start
with the b-flat try it on top so there's
three shapes there's this which is the
top of a B flat triad the notes d F and
B flat
there's this which I think of as a flat
over B flat like the four chord in the
key of B flat is E flat over be typical
141 resolution
but since I'm moving up on the G and the
B string I continue to move up to the
fifth and the flat seventh there are a
million songs that have this that little
melody built in there from back at the
Chicken Shack Jimmy Smith to the
preacher Horace Silver there's a zillion
songs that have that in there so this is
along those lines what goes along with
that that's very important is there's a
sixteenth note rhythm being created with
the strumming handy so so I'm only
hitting the strings some of the time I'm
not every sixteenth notes striking the
string
if you were to boil it down to something
specific you have downbeat actions
against upbeat accents that alternate
and I like to put that low be based on
b-flat bass note in there with the thumb
when I can then we go to the five chord
I'm going to do that one for one thing
again with F so there's F to be flat
back to F and then there's a step back
on the one and I just did some
aggressive to fill in the space and then
the little turnaround at the end there
is a flat flat 7 chord to the fork or D
flat to the one chord be flat and then I
added a little little single no roof
based on b-flat major pentatonic and I
played a simpler if the first time and
then a little bit more of a complicated
riff the second time and you know an
interesting thing overall is that back
in the 50s and early 60s the rhythm
guitar or the guitar would play very
basic parts and the horns would be the
instruments applying those upper motivic
sounds but rock guitar players in the
early 60s and into the mid-60s and late
60s started to incorporate those horn
figures into their guitar parts and
that's how Clapton and Hendricks and
Jimmy Page came up with so many cool
riffs that then just became part of the
lexicon of what rock guitar is all about